DOCS-10166 Rewrite "API Manager Concepts" document (#347)
mulesoft/docs-api-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/latest-overview-concept.adoc

API Manager supports the following types of policies:

* Default policies
* Custom policies

For details, see xref:policies-landing-page.adoc[Policies].

=== SLA Tiers

Service Level Access (SLA) tiers are categories of user access that you define for an API. The tier definition combined with an SLA-based policy determines whether access to the API at a certain level requires your approval. The tier definition also can limit the number of requests an application can make to the API. To enforce SLA tiers, you need to apply a rate-limiting or throttling policy that is SLA-based.

For details, see xref:defining-sla-tiers.adoc[Reviewing SLA Tiers Concepts].

=== Client Providers (Identity Providers)

You use client providers to enforce security and regulations in your business organization. Client providers authorize client applications. 

For details, see xref:configure-multiple-credential-providers.adoc[Configure Multiple Client Providers for Client Management].

> === Contracts

Reviewer: HERE

> Contracts define how client applications consume APIs. A client application requests access in Exchange. Either the owner of the API instance approves the request in API Manager, or the approval is automatic, depending on configuration. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Contracts define how client applications consume APIs. A client application requests access in Exchange. Either the owner of the API instance approves the request in API Manager or the approval is automatic, depending on configuration. 
```

Author: Fixed!

> Contracts are created between client applications and API instances. A client application requests access in Exchange. Either the owner of the API instance approves the request in API Manager, or the approval is automatic, depending on configuration. When the request is approved, the client application is registered.

Reviewer 2: `Contracts are created between client applications and API instances` Not completely clear I think. I would say, A contract defines how a client application can consume an API

Reviewer 2: `When the request is approved, the client application is registered.`

This is not correct. Client application registration is independent of contract creation/approval.

Author: Fixed, thanks!

Contracts are enforced with either of the following:

* SLA enforcement policies
* Client enforcement policies

> For details, see xref:api-contracts-landing-page.adoc[Client Applications and Contracts].

Reviewer: GLOBALLY try to specify what details, specifically, we are referring the audience to: what information that that location relates directly to this topic? Details about WHAT (without restating the title of this subtopic). For example, do we mean...:
```suggestion
For details about enforcement policies, see xref:api-contracts-landing-page.adoc[Client Applications and Contracts].
```

Reviewer: ...the GLOBAL being to replace "for details" with something more specific, if appropriate or possible.

Author: Fixed here, and fixed in a few other places where it made sense. I feel it didn't make sense in situations where the title of the link was self-explanatory, or if the topic title itself described what was being linked to.

=== API Alerts

An API alert (different from a Runtime Manager alert) is an alarm that flags one of the following:

* The API request violates a policy.
* Requests received by the API exceed a given number within a specified period of time.
* The API returns a specified HTTP error code.
* The API response time exceeds a specified timeout value.

API Manager triggers alerts when states change from desirable to undesirable or vice versa. When an alert is triggered, API Manager sends an email notification to you and to anyone else you specify in the configuration.

For details, see xref:using-api-alerts.adoc[Alerts].

=== API Assets

API assets, published by Exchange, are the components that comprise applications. Components include any of the following:

* APIs (OAS, RAML, RAML fragments, HTTP, WSDL, and custom)
* API groups
* Policies
* Examples
* Templates
* Modules
* Connectors

For details, see xref:exchange::about-sharing-assets.adoc[Share Assets].

=== API Groups

> 

Reviewer: HERE

> An API group is a collection of API instances that act as a single unit, so that applications can access the APIs as a group using one client ID. API groups are created in API Manager and published to Exchange.

Reviewer: When introducing a term with an accompanying definition or synonym, consider using italic. Also, does this abbreviated version maintain technical accuracy/understandability?
```suggestion
An _API group_ is a collection of API instances that act as a single unit, so that applications can access them using one client ID. API groups are created in API Manager and published to Exchange.
```

Author: Fixed!

> For details, see xref:api-groups-landing-page.adoc[API Groups].

Reviewer: ditto comment at Line 110: what specific details are we referring to within the landing page? Specific subtopics?

Author: I fixed this in a few places where it made sense. I feel it didn't make sense in situations where the title of the link was self-explanatory, or if the topic title itself described what was being linked to.

> === API Instances

Reviewer: HERE

> An API group is an API asset that enables organizations to publish a group of API instances as a single unit, so that applications can access the APIs as a group using one client ID. API groups are created in API Manager and published to Exchange.

Reviewer 2: An API group in api manager is not necessarily an API asset. An API group is a collection of API instances that acts `as a single unit, so that ...`

Author: Fixed, thanks!

> An API instance belongs to one environment, but you can have different API instances of an API in different environments.

Reviewer: I can't seem to wrap my head around this: do we mean...

API B = Environment X, but
API Ba = Environment Y
API Bb = Environment Z....

Or are we saying that any one API instance can belong to only one environment, but that one environment can "own" more than one API instance?

One API : API A
Multiple instances of API A : API A1, API A2, API A3..., each belonging to only one environment
One environment can own multiple API instances, but those instances belong only to that one environment?

Reviewer: (If this is something that your audience will readily understand, then pass over my question...but do you really want to say:
```suggestion
One API instance belongs to one environment, but you can have different instances of that same API in different environments.
```

Author: I decided it was best to remove this sentence, as I'm thinking it distracts from the intent of the topic (which is to describe the UI). The sentence feels misplaced. Furthermore, the information in the sentence is included in the topic's link below the screenshot.

> An API instance can exist in multiple environments, and you can create multiple instances of an API in one environment.

Reviewer 2: Not sure if this is totally clear. Each API instance belongs to one environment, but you can have different API instances of an API on different environments.

Author: Fixed, thanks!

The API Manager dashboard shows key information about a deployed API instance:

image::dashboard-legend.png[]

> For details, see xref:api-instance-landing-page.adoc[API Instance].

Reviewer: Same GLOBAL edit to specify which details, if possible.

Author: I fixed this in a few places where it made sense. I feel it didn't make sense in situations where the title of the link was self-explanatory, or if the topic title itself described what was being linked to.

> = API Manager Overview

Reviewer: Per style ref., we want to avoid, if possible, the vague titles "About" or "Overview."
In the case of the latter, we definitely do not want to use it for the kind of lengthy and detailed text that follows.
Consider ending your container topic after the current Line 16; be sure to include briefly...:

- WHAT Anypoint API Manager (API Manager) is
- WHY your audience should care: when or under what circumstances would you audience use it, and to what specific advantage
- MENTION of all subtopics contained within

Author: Thanks so much for the awesome editorial review, Kim! I implemented most of your feedback. The only item I didn't incorporate was adding more context to xref links. I was thinking that in most cases this would create redundancy, as the surrounding topics provide information on what can be found in the links.

ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:keywords: api, manager, raml
:page-aliases: general:getting-started:api-lifecycle-overview.adoc

> API Manager is a component of Anypoint Platform for managing, governing, and securing APIs. The component leverages the runtime capabilities of API Gateway and Service Mesh, both of which enforce policies, collect and track analytics data, manage proxies, provide industry-standard encryption and authentications, and manage applications.

Reviewer: Address the audience directly. Always use full product name at first narrative use, often per Level-1 heading intro:
```suggestion
Anypoint API Manager (API Manager) is a component of Anypoint Platform that enables you to manage, govern, and secure APIs. It leverages the runtime capabilities of API Gateway and Anypoint Service Mesh, both of which enforce policies, collect and track analytics data, manage proxies, provide industry-standard encryption and authentications, and manage applications.
```
Note that Anypoint Service Mesh does not have an approved short form, so GLOBALLY search for and ensure that the full name is used consistently.
Think about whether "industry-standard" is really necessary: sounds like Marketing lingo.

Author: Fixed.

API Manager is tightly integrated with the following tools:

> * Design Center for specifying the structure of the API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Anypoint Design Center (Design Center), for specifying the structure of the API
```

Author: Fixed.

> * Exchange for storing and publishing API assets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Anypoint Exchange (Exchange), for storing and publishing API assets
```

Author: Fixed.

> * Studio for implementing the API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Anypoint Studio (Studio), for implementing the API
```

Author: Fixed.

> * Runtime Manager to deploy, manage and monitor the API (or proxy)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Anypoint Runtime Manager (Runtime Manager), to deploy, manage, and monitor the API (or proxy)
```

Author: Fixed.

> 

Reviewer: Consider wrapping up here with a statement something like "Before using API Manager, familiarize yourself with the user interface and the tasks you can perform therein.
Consider adding a list of related topics linking to each of the tools mentioned above?
And then create a Level-2 title (==) for the description of the user interface.

Author: Fixed.

> Logging in to Anypoint Platform and selecting *API Manager* from the main menu navigates you to the following page:

Reviewer: Try to stick with active voice and imperative verbs:
```suggestion
To access API Manager, log in to Anypoint Platform and select *API Manager* from the main menu:
```
OR
```suggestion
To access the API Manager administration page, log in to Anypoint Platform and select *API Manager* from the main menu:
```

Author: Fixed.

image::api-manager-ui-overview.png[80%,80%]

> <1> The environment selector is displayed at the top left of the API Administration page.

Reviewer: If we are showing the UI and labeling locations by using numbered callouts, we should not have to use words to locate them (top left), and these terms provide issues with accessibility.
Is this landing page labeled *API Administration*? See suggestion at Line 17.
```suggestion
<1> The environment selector. Anypoint Platform enables you to create and manage separate deployment environments for APIs and applications. API Manager displays all environments except design environments.
```

Reviewer: I also notice that <1> renders as 1. in the View tool. Check the graphics style guide about formatting legend items.

Author: Fixed.

+

> Anypoint Platform enables you to create and manage separate deployment environments for APIs and applications. API Manager displays all environments except design environments.

Reviewer: I think that this can go up with the rest of the legend text above ^ (Line 21)

Author: Fixed.

+
For details, see xref:switch-environment-task.adoc[Switching Environments].

> <2> You can select an option from the left navigation menu:

Reviewer: I see these as reference texts (legend to a graphic; definitions), so...edited to that. 
We can discuss if you disagree.
```suggestion
<2> Navigation menu:
```

Author: Fixed.

> ** *API Groups*

Reviewer: GLOBAL consideration: I think you can use first-level bullets for this list rather than subbullets. Please apply throughout this list if you agree; I'll not comment about it again here.

Author: Fixed.

+
An API Group is an API asset that enables organizations to publish a group of API instances as a single unit. 
+

> For details, see xref:api-groups-landing-page.adoc[API Groups].

Reviewer: Why is "Group" capitalized? Is API Group a proper noun (excluding its use as a UI label)?
I think it is okay to add the cross-refs to the text before them, GLOBALLY in this list.
Also GLOBALLY, make "for details" or "for more information" more robust by adding a specific type of detail or information: for more details about what aspect of this item or concept?
suggestion:
An API group is an API asset that enables organizations to publish a group of API instances as a single unit. For more detail about what API groups are and how to use them, see xref:api-groups-landing-page.adoc[API Groups].

Author: Fixed.

** *Automated Policies* 
+
With policy automation, security architects and administrators can secure and govern every API running in an environment. 
+

> For details, see xref:automated-policies-landing-page.adoc[Automated Policies].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Policy automation enables security architects and administrators to secure and govern every API running in an environment. For details, see xref:automated-policies-landing-page.adoc[Automated Policies].
```
ditto GLOBAL about "details."

Author: Fixed.

** *Client Applications*
+
Applications are external services that consume APIs. 
+

> For details, see xref:view-api-contracts.adoc[View API Instance Contracts].

Reviewer: ditto prev. GLOBAL edits

Author: See my note in the first conversation.

** *Custom Policies*
+
Custom Policies are policies that anyone can develop and apply to their APIs, with the intention of extending existing functionality or defining new functionality.
+
[NOTE]
====
The *Custom Policies* option is only available for Mule 3 custom policies. Mule 4 custom policies are available in Exchange.
====
+

> For details, see xref:custom-policy-getting-started.adoc[Getting started with Custom Policies development].

Reviewer: See style ref. regarding use of notations (Note). Ditto prev. edits, plus...:

```suggestion
Custom policies are policies that anyone can develop and apply to their APIs, with the intention of extending existing functionality or defining new functionality. This option is available in the UI only for Mule 3 implementations; Mule 4 custom policies are available in Exchange. For details, see xref:custom-policy-getting-started.adoc[Getting Started with Custom Policies Development].
```

Author: Fixed.

** *Analytics*
+
API Analytics provide insight into how your APIs are being used and how they are performing. 
+

> For details, see xref:viewing-api-analytics.adoc[Reviewing Analytics Usage].

Reviewer: ditto prev
```suggestion
API analytics provide insight into how your APIs are being used and how they are performing. For details, see xref:viewing-api-analytics.adoc[Reviewing Analytics Usage].
```

Author: Fixed.

<3> The *Manage API* button enables you to add API instances.
+
You add an API previously published to Exchange. Or you add an API by uploading a RAML/OAS/SOAP definition. Additionally, you can add an API instance by importing a configuration ZIP file previously exported from API Manager.
+

> For details, see xref:getting-started-proxy.adoc[Getting Started with Managing an API].

Reviewer: ditto prev
```suggestion
<3> The *Manage API* button. Enables you to add an existing API instance from Exchange, to upload a RAML/OAS/SOAP definition, or to import a configuration ZIP file exported from API Manager. For details, see xref:getting-started-proxy.adoc[Getting Started with Managing an API].
```

Author: Fixed.

<4> Click the *Promote from environment* button to promote an API from any environment to the current environment.
+

> For details, see xref:promote-api-task.adoc[Promoting an API Instance to Another Environment].

Reviewer: ditto. Also, occurs to me that we might not even need the label, since we are using numbers and a legend....
```suggestion
<4> The *Promote from environment* button. Enables you to promote an API from any environment to the current environment. For details, see xref:promote-api-task.adoc[Promoting an API Instance to Another Environment].
```

Author: Fixed.

<5> Search for managed APIs via the API search field.
+

> Searches are case-sensitive. Filter search results by selecting *All*, *Favorites* or *Active*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<5> Search. Enables you to search for managed APIs via the API search field. Note that searches are case-sensitive. Filter search results by selecting *All*, *Favorites*, or *Active*.
```

Author: Fixed.

<6> Click the *Environment information* button to display a dialog with information about the current environment, such as environment credentials.
+
You use environment credentials to provision the Anypoint Service Mesh adapter, or to configure Studio to sync with your environment.
+
[NOTE]
====
The *Environment information* button is only available to administrators.

> ====

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<6> The *Environment information* button, available only to administrator users. Enables administrators to display a dialog with information about the current environment, such as environment credentials. Use environment credentials to provision the Anypoint Service Mesh adapter or to configure Studio to sync with your environment.
```

Author: Fixed.

<7> The API version is displayed for each API. 
+

> Clicking the API version number navigates you to the API *Settings* view, where you manage the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<7> The API version for each API. Clicking the API version number navigates you to the API *Settings* view, where you manage the following:
```

Author: Fixed.

+
** *Alerts*
+
For details, see xref:using-api-alerts.adoc[Reviewing Alerts Concepts].
** *Contracts*
+
For details, see xref:api-contracts-landing-page.adoc[Client Applications and Contracts].
** *Policies*
+
For details, see xref:policies-landing-page.adoc[Policies].
** *SLA Tiers*
+
For details, see xref:defining-sla-tiers.adoc[Reviewing SLA Tiers Concepts].

<8> The registration status of each API is displayed.
+
Possible values are *Active*, *Inactive*, *Deploying*, and *Unregistered*. 

> +

Reviewer: tracking registration?
```suggestion
<8> The tracking registration status of each API: *Active*, *Inactive*, *Deploying*, or *Unregistered*. 
+
```

Reviewer: An alternative would be to give each status its own bullet:
```suggestion
<8> The tracking registration status of each API:
+
** *Active*: Required for governance policies and SLA tiers to function.
** *Inactive*: blah
** *Unregistered*: The endpoint for this API version has never been tracked, either because because it is not yet deployed or because it is hosted....

Possible values are *Active*, *Inactive*, *Deploying*, and *Unregistered*. 
+
```

Author: Fixed.

A status of *Unregistered* means that Anypoint Platform has never tracked the endpoint for this API version. Either you have entered a URL for an API or proxy that is not yet deployed, or you have declared an endpoint that is hosted somewhere other than an API Gateway and need to proxy that endpoint so that the platform can track it.
+

> The endpoint must be tracked *Active* by Anypoint Platform in order for governance policies and SLA tiers to function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The endpoint must have a tracking registration status of *Active* for governance policies and SLA tiers to function.
```

Author: Fixed.

> <9> The number of contracted client applications is displayed for each API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<9> The number of contracted client applications for each API. For details, see xref:api-contracts-landing-page.adoc[Client Applications and Contracts].
```

Author: Fixed.

+

> For details, see xref:api-contracts-landing-page.adoc[Client Applications and Contracts].

Reviewer: See above

Author: See my note in the first conversation.

== API Manager Basic Concepts

> 

Reviewer: See edit comment Line 16. I guess what I am suggesting is something like
= What API Manager Is
short def, why you care, what's inside: UI architecture and basic concepts
== What API Manager Looks Like
Image and reference legend to image
== API Manager Components and Concepts
Reference topic: could have subtopics or could just use dlist format (used in Anypoint Platform Glossary https://docs.mulesoft.com/general/glossary)

Reviewer: Copyedited the rest.

Author: Added.

=== Policies

> Policies enable you to enforce regulations to help manage security, control traffic, and improve adaptability of your APIs. For example, a policy can control authentication, access, allotted consumption, and service level access (SLA).

Reviewer: Our Term Presentation List shows SLA as service-level agreement; it it wrong?

Author: In the context of access tiers, SLA is an abbreviation for "Service Level Access". Service-level agreements are different beasts.

API Manager supports the following types of policies:

> 

Reviewer: I would lowercase both instances of "Policies" below.

Author: Fixed.

* Default Policies
* Custom Policies

> For details, see xref:policies-landing-page.adoc[Policies].

Reviewer: ditto more robust xref intro text; GLOBAL in this section

Author: See my note in the first conversation.

=== SLA Tiers

> Service Level Access (SLA) tiers are categories of user access that you define for an API. The tier definition combined with an SLA-based policy determines whether access to the API at a certain level requires your approval. The tier definition also can limit the number of requests an application can make to the API. To enforce SLA tiers, you need to apply a rate-limiting or throttling policy that is SLA-based.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Service-level agreement (SLA) tiers are categories of user access that you define for an API. The tier definition combined with an SLA-based policy determines whether access to the API at a certain level requires your approval. The tier definition also can limit the number of requests an application can make to the API. To enforce SLA tiers, you apply a rate-limiting or throttling policy that is SLA-based.
```

Reviewer: This is a silly little thing, but consider introducing all these definitions in a parallel way: either <this thing is/does this> or <this thing enables you to> or <use this thing to>. Possible?

Author: In the context of access tiers, SLA is an abbreviation for "Service Level Access". Service-level agreements are different beasts.

For details, see xref:defining-sla-tiers.adoc[Reviewing SLA Tiers Concepts].

=== Client Providers (Identity Providers)
You use client providers to help you enforce security and regulations in your business organization. Client providers authorize client applications. 

For details, see xref:configure-multiple-credential-providers.adoc[Configure Multiple Client Providers for Client Management].

=== Contracts

> Contracts are created between client applications and API instances. A client application requests access in Exchange. The owner of the API instance approves the request in API Manager (or the approval is automatic, depending on configuration). When the request has been approved, the client application is registered.

Reviewer: These are all just alternatives. Your wordings are fine as-is...just offering others for consideration:
```suggestion
Contracts are created between client applications and API instances. A client application requests access in Exchange. Either the owner of the API instance approves the request in API Manager, or the approval is automatic, depending on configuration. When the request is approved, the client application is registered.
```

Author: Fixed.

Contracts are enforced with either of the following:

* SLA enforcement policies
* Client enforcement policies

For details, see xref:api-contracts-landing-page.adoc[Client Applications and Contracts].

=== API Alerts
An API alert (different from a Runtime Manager alert) is an alarm that flags one of the following:

> 

Reviewer: End each with a period; all are complete sentences.

Author: Fixed.

* The API request violates a policy

> * Requests received by the API exceed a given number within a period of time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Requests received by the API exceed a given number within a specified period of time.
```

Author: Fixed.

* The API returns a specified HTTP error code

> * The API response time exceeds a certain amount

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The API response time exceeds a specified timeout value.
```

Author: Fixed.

> API Manager triggers alerts when states change from desirable to undesirable or vice versa. When an alert triggers, API Manager sends email notifications to you and to others, if configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
API Manager triggers alerts when states change from desirable to undesirable or vice versa. When an alert is triggered, API Manager sends an email notification to you and to anyone else you specify in the configuration.
```

Author: Fixed.

For details, see xref:using-api-alerts.adoc[Alerts].

=== API Assets
API assets, published by Exchange, are the components that comprise applications. Components include any of the following:

> * APIs (OAS, RAML, RAML fragments, HTTP, WSDL, and Custom)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* APIs (OAS, RAML, RAML fragments, HTTP, WSDL, and custom)
```

Author: Fixed.

> * API Groups

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* API groups
```

Author: Fixed.

* Policies
* Examples
* Templates
* Modules

> * Connectors owned by MuleSoft or your organization

Reviewer: Could we just specify "Connectors"?

Author: Fixed.

For details, see xref:exchange::about-sharing-assets.adoc[Share Assets].

=== API Groups

> An API Group is an API asset that enables organizations to publish a group of API instances as a single unit, so that applications can access the APIs as a group using one client ID. API Groups are created in API Manager and published to Exchange.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An API group is an API asset that enables organizations to publish a group of API instances as a single unit, so that applications can access the APIs as a group using one client ID. API groups are created in API Manager and published to Exchange.
```

Author: Fixed.

For details, see xref:api-groups-landing-page.adoc[API Groups].

=== API Instances

> Instances of an API can exist in multiple environments. Additionally, you can create multiple instances of an API in the same environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An API instance can exist in multiple environments, and you can create multiple instances of an API in one environment.
```

Author: Fixed.

The API Manager dashboard shows key information about a deployed API instance:

image::dashboard-legend.png[]

For details, see xref:api-instance-landing-page.adoc[API Instance].

=== Autodiscovery Schemes

> Through the Autodiscovery scheme, API Manager can track the API throughout the life cycle as you modify, version, deploy, govern, and publish it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Through autodiscovery schemes, API Manager can track the API throughout the life cycle as you modify, version, deploy, govern, and publish it.
```

Author: Fixed.

=== Business Groups

> A system administrator groups individuals within an organization into business groups. Each group has its own Exchange API assets, and its own environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A system administrator groups individuals within an organization into business groups. Each group has its own Exchange API assets and its own environments.
```

Author: Fixed.

For details, see xref:access-management::business-groups.adoc[Business Groups].

=== Environments

> Anypoint Platform enables you to create and manage separate deployment environments for APIs and applications. These environments are independent from each other and enable you to test your applications under the same conditions as your production environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anypoint Platform enables you to create and manage separate deployment environments for APIs and applications. These environments are independent from each other and enable you to test your applications under the same conditions as in your production environment.
```

Author: Fixed.
